--
layout: post
title:  "Blog_11"
date:   2020-11-20 9:45:38 -0700
categories: text editor vim
---
## Intro
Welcome back to my blog series for CIT480! Today I decided I will be talking about Vi, the text
editor that is usualyl installed into Ubuntu by default. I honestly do not have much experience with
Vi and install Nano almost every time I set up a new machine because it is so much easier. However,
there are people who swear by Vi and today I will explain some basics about it and you can decide
yourself which one it is you would prefer to use.

### Vi - Getting Started
First off open up the terminal. You can make a new directory or or just start creating files, it's up to
you. I like to keep things organized so I'm just gonna make a new directory called Tutorial using the
follow command:
```
mkdir Tutorial
```
Once inside we will use `vi <filename>` to create a file. Name it whatever you like. Should a file with
the same name already exist, it will instead open that file.

### Vi Modes
So Vi has two modes:
* command mode
* insert mode
In command mode it is the letters that you use to move around the document, as opposed to the arrow
keys. You will be in the mode by default but can enter it by hitting the ESC button. In insert mode you
can begin typing words like a normal editor. In order to switch to insert mode press `i` on your
keyboard.

### Navigating the Doc
Alright, so like I said previously you do not move around the document using the arrow keys. Instead you
use the letters h,j,k, and l to do the following:

| Key | Movement |
| :------: | :------: |
| h | Left one space |
| j | Down one line |
| k | Up one line |
| l | Right one space |

### Basic Editing
To use editing commands you need to be in command mode. You use the letters to do a command and some
will have a differnt function depending on whether or not you typed it as a lowercase or uppercase. You
can also precede commands with a number to indicate how many you would like that comand to be done.
Let's go over some basics.

### Deleting
IT IS NOT BACKSPACE. It is `x`. You maneuver your cursor onto the character you wish to delete. You hit
`x` to delete it or add a number, for example: `3x`, to delete 3 characters. If you type it in as an
uppercase x, then it will delete the character before the cursor like similar to a nomral backspaces
function. You delete an entire word by moving to the first character in that word typing:
```
dw
```
 It also deletes the spaces following it. If you wish to delete an entire line then use:
```
dd
```
The cursor does not have to be at the beginning of the line. If you type in:
```
D
```
The it will delete everything from our cursors position to the end of the line you are currently on.

### Replacing
You can replace characters using `r`. Whatever your cursor is on it will replace said character upon
typing in a replacement character. You can replace an entire word by placing the cursor at the first
letter and using the command:
```
cw
```
You will now be in insert mode and can type your replacement word. It does not have to be of the same
length as the previous word and you can hit ESC to go back into command mode. Replacing an entire line
entails moving the cursor to the end of your target line and typing the command:
```
C
```

### Undoing Edits
To undo an edit use lowcase `u`. Using uppercase will undo all the edits on a single line.

### Saving and Quitting
To save the file and quit the editor use the command:
```
zz
```
If you would simply like to save the document and continue using the editor, which is always 
recommended, use the command:
```
:w
```
If you would liek to quit the document and discard the changes you have made then use the command:
```
:q!
```

### Conclusion
These are the bsics of Vi editor. Personally it is too much for my taste. I can definitely see all the
things you can do with it that make it more convenient once you get the hang of it. At the end of the
day it is preference. That's it for this blog. I hope this helped anyone looking to learn how to use this
editor. I'll see you again next week!
