---
layout: post
title:  "Blog_7"
date:   2020-10-23 6:25:38 -0700
categories: password security
---
Welcome back to my blog series for CIT 480. This is Blog 7 and if you remember last week we talked about
Dockerfiles. This week I think I'll change course and talk about account security. This is known as
hardening an account. Often the word "hardening" is used to refer to the various things people do to add
extra security measures to an account, most typically a root account. Today I'll just talk about normal
things you can do to keep your account protected. This doesn't apply to anything specific but account
security is also big part of Computer Information Technology and it's importance should not be
overlooked. Let's get started.

So let's say you made an account for a new email. Your going to be using this email to recieve all your
important and personal information, maybe from family, doctors or other places that may have access to
your personal info. It would be bad if someone got access to your account and had all this sensitive
information. The obvious thing to do, and what is required by almost everyone, is that the account has a
password. What makes a good password though? Length for one thing. A way for people to gain access to
your account is through method called brute forcing. Basically they have a program that puts in every
possible combination until eventually it gets the correct sequence of letters and numbers that make your
password. The longer your password is the more possible combinations there are.

![Password Hacking Chart](https://i.imgur.com/daXhN25.png)

Above is a chart listing how long it would take someone to brute force your password. Using only numbers
is dangerous. Anything less than 10 numbers is instant. It really only gets better past 15 numbers where
the time it takes goes past a day and even that isn't very good. Your safest bet would be to use a
combination of letters, numbers, symbols, as well as mixing both upper and lowercase letters. So let's
focus on that last column. Personally, I like passwords that would take people years to get into. Even
better if the amount of time it would take to get your password exceeds the average human's lifespan. At
11 characters it is 400 years, but add one more character to that and it rockets to 34,000 years. A
password is often one of the only means of protection people have for their account. If you choose to do
this, then it might as well be as strong as possible.

Another way, which may depend on the account your making, is multi-factor authentication (MFA). MFA
combines two or more methods of account protection and requires all of them be verified before access to
your account is given. This is becoming more widely accessible for most sites and is typically available
for email accounts or things like bank accounts. This kind of protection means you rely on multiple
protection such as a randomly generated password being sent to another device for you to put in as well
as your regular password. You can link your acount to your phone for example and have a password sent to
it when trying to log in. This is to make sure your account can't be acessed without your permission.
Having multipe layers of protection is always a good thing when it comes to protecting your information.

Those are just some simple tups to protect your account. Hopefully this helps you improve and keep your
accounts safe. A common saying for IT is that it isn't a matter of how they get your info but when. For
every protection we create a new way to get past it is made as well. So make sure you secure your things
to best of your ability and I'll see you next week.
pssword was weak and they broke it instantly. The account then sends a verification to your phone (which
hopefully) you have on you and they won't be able to access.
