---
layout: post
title:  "Blog_0"
date:   2020-09-03 4:25:38 -0700
categories: virtual machine ubuntu
---
This is the first of many blogs for CIT480. I am a student and I hope to improve my understanding of the
materials of this class by creating these weekly blogs. Should anyone be reading this, I hope that the
information on these pages will be of some use to you in helping you reslove any problems that you may 
run across.

For this Blog_0 I will be going over how to create a virtual machine that runs on Ubuntu.

For starters, you will need to make sure that your machine has the option to run Virtual Machines enabled.
In my case, I just recently built the computer that I am using and was not able to begin using virtual
machines until I enabled them in the BIOS. Upon starting your computer you will need to press a key, (in
most cases) F2, to enter the BIOS. Once inside you will need to navigate to CPU Configuration. For me it
was under the Advanced tab. I switched SVM mode to enabled for my machine. You may have different options
and I suggest looking up which setting you may have to enable to continue.

Once that is done, you will need the application to run a virtual machine. I will be explaining how to set
up a VM using [Oracle VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/). After installing the latest version from
that link, you will now need to get your OS.

Ubuntu is a free OS that you can find at [ubuntu.com](https://ubuntu.com/download/desktop). Unlike Windows
or Mac you do not have to pay for this OS. You can still create a virtual machine that uses Windows or Mac
OS X, however the ordeal of finding copies of them for free may take you to some questionable places on the
internet.

Now we have everything we need to make a VM. Start up Virtualbox and toward the top center you'll see an icon
and the word New. Hit that and a pop up window will appear. You can name the virtual machine whatever you
want and leave the machine folder alone. For type and version you can actually select whatever you want. Those
two only effect the icon you'll see to the right. It's more for the convenience of being able to remember
which machine is running what OS should you start creating multiple. In our case we can choose Linux for the 
type and scroll down in version to find Ubuntu.

Next it will allow ask you allocate some memory from RAM. You can't give the VM more memory than what your
computer has. Also if you give it to much memory it could negatively affect the performance of your PC every
time you open up the VM. However give it to little memory and it may not run so well. Whatever you choose to
give it, don't worry to much beacause this setting can always be adjusted later on even after the VM is created.

Lastly it will ask you to select a virtual hard disk. Since we are making a basic VM you can select the create
a virtual hard disk now option. A new window will then pop up and you can keep everything the same. Just keep
selecting next until you finally create the machine.

Now all that's left is to turn on the machine. When you do the first window that will pop up will act as your
VM's monitor. Then a second smaller window will pop up asking you to select a starting disk. That is the copy
of Ubuntu that we downloaded earlier. Assuming you didn't change where it was saved it should be in your
download folder. Select it, hit continue, and your VM will start the setup process like a real machine
installing an OS for the first time. Your free to choose how you want to set it up at this point. Once your
done selecting whatever options feel right to you, your VM will finish installing the OS. From there it should
restart and ask you to remove the start disk. Simply close your VM and it should remove itself. If it does not
or you would like to check, select you newly created machine and hit the settings tab in the top center where
new was. Go down to storage and Controller: IDE should be empty.

That's all there is to it. You have successfully made a virtual machine. Hope this blog has helped you and
good luck with your next project.
