---
layout: post
title:  "Blog_12"
date:   2020-12-04 9:00:38 -0700
categories: AWS Cloud Computing
---
## Intro
Welcome back to the last blog in my blog series for CIT480! This is the final one and it has been fun 
making these but I am a little relieved this semester is coming to a close. This time around I will be
talking about AWS or Amazon Web Services. This semester I was given the opportunity to enroll in the
AWS Academy class and do many different modules relating to the various services that they provide. In
this blog I will be talking about cloud computing and some of the things that the very first lesson
goes over. As always I hope this helps anyone looking to understand it a little better and with that
let's get into it.

### What is Cloud Comptuing?
Cloud computing is a service that provides the user with compute power, storage, and other various IT 
resources through the internet. It is available whenever you need it and in some cases uses a
pay-as-you-go model, meaning you are only charged for what you are using. Normally, if you would like to
run the kind of services that they provide, you would need to have a lot of harware, space, and most
likely man power to upkeep all the machines you are using. With cloud computing you are using someone
else's server which are located in large data centers in different parts of the world. The way AWS puts
it, it lets you think of infrastructure as a software rather than a hardware. This because everything
you need to being running and managing projects can now be done from a screen and you are no longer
responisble for maintaining the things mentioned above. Everything is at your fingertips.

### Cloud vs Hardware Solution
Let's go a little more in depth. The hardware solution would mean running it yourself. But what does
that really mean? Like I mentioned before you own everything so you would need the hardware which is
computers, servers, etc. Then you also need the space for all those machines. If you have all that, you
to focus on keeping them in good shape which could mean several things, such as regular maintenance as
well proper cooling for the machines, and maybe some staff to help out with all of that. It is a lot.
The costs could easily go into the tens of thousands. It is also not dynamic, meaning you have to have
a very good estimate of what you are using because you pay for what you have even if you are not using
it. Or worse you under estimate and the workload surpasses what you are capable of. Cloud computing
saves you money and solves your estimation problems. In cloud computing you do not have to mantain any
of the above. No eltricity bills, maintenance fees, or paying for space to put everything because they
take care of that for you. You are also given the option of paying only for what you use meaning it is
dynamic. Having a slow month? Your not paying any extra for the power that is just sitting there. Or
maybe its a great month and traffic triples! In a hardware solution you can't accomodate that 
immediately. You would need more machines, then you have to install said machines and update them to get
them on track. That can take days to weeks. With cloud computing all that can happen in seconds. It is a
very convenient service that allows for much more flexibility than the traditional hardware service
while costing you a fraction of the price.

### Cloud Service Models
There are three different models provided by cloud computing:
- Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS)
- Platform as a Service (PaaS)
- Software as a Service (SaaS)

IaaS provides you with the building blocks for cloud IT meaning you have the most control of everything
that is involved with the project from network features to storage space. Think of it as starting
completely from scratch.

PaaS takes care of managing the hardware and OS for you. This allows you to focus more on deploying and
managing your applications.

SaaS gives you a completed product. Everything is taken care of for you and you need to worryabout is
how you are going to use it.

## Cloud Deployment Models
There are three different models in this case as well:
- Cloud
- Hybrid
- On-premises

Cloud deployment is when everything is done on the cloud. You have nore hardware of your own and
everything is taken care of in one of the many data centers around the world.

Hybrid is a case of you already having machines. You use the machines you already have and connect them
to provide resources not contained within your cloud environment.

On-premises is like traditional IT, but it also uses application management and virtualization to
increase resource utilization.

## Conclusion
Thats a little bit about what the cloud is and its advantages over managin your own hardware. Again this
is the last blog of the series and thank you to anyone who has read this. As always I hope this helped
in understanding the cloud a little more and I wish you luck in all your endeavors.

