---
layout: post
title:  "Blog_04_SP21"
date:   2021-03-26 9:00:38 -0700
categories: Python Basic
---
## Intro
Welcome back to my Blog series! This is the first one I'm posting this semester even though it is
technically number 4. A lot has happened but I am now mentally stable enough to remember that these
are supposed to exist. Anyway enough about that... let's talk about Python!

### What is Python?
Pythons are snakes, but this is not an animal blog. This is an IT blog. So for us Python, while named
named after our scaly friend, is a programming language! In my own personal opinion, it is one of the
easiest programming languages and most forgiving that I have had the pleasure of learning the basics to.
It is much less strict than, let's say, JavaScript for instance which will shout at you for every line
that does not end with a a proper `;`. So let's go over it.

### Printing with Python
In this Blog I will teach you how to print with Python and also talk about some of the pros of using
this particular language.
```
print('This is the command to print a statement')
```
First let's break it down. We start with `print`. As you probably guessed it is the command in python that
let's us print within a set of  `( )`. inside of the parenthesis you need the `' '`(single quotes). When 
you use this command, it is important to note that you cannot use the `" "`(double quotes). Other things
to notice are the fact there is no space between `print` and the first `(` as well as the fact that the
line does not end with `;`. If you are used to other languages, you know that they will not compile the
code without `;` at the end of every line. Python was designed to be simpler and more forgiving and does
not require it.

Now just compile the code and run it to see the magic of your very first Python code!

### End
And that's it! This semester started off pretty rough for me and the general plan this time around will be
to create these Blogs with short little tutorials on differnt subjects. As always I hope this gave you
some basic insight into Python and I may even cover it more in another post! Anyway, hope to see you next
time!
