---
layout: post
title:  "Blog_10_SP21"
date:   2021-05-07 10:25:38 -0700
categories: HTML
---
## Intro
Alright last blog in the series! It has definitely been a semester... my mind has been everywhere and
definitely not on these. I doubt a lot of people ever really came to this to learn, but hey, if your that
1%, I appreaciate you and in this last blog we will go over that website I was working on!

### Tables
So tables may seem complicated at first but are very easy to create. First we start with `<table>` tag.
Go down to the next line and make sure you indent as is the proper way. For every row created we use the
tag `<tr>`. Starting with the header we move on to the next line and use `<th>` tag which is the header
portion of the table. All foloowing rows will all use `<tr>` but all data columns wll use the tag `<td>`.
FOr example:
```
<table>
	<tr>
		<th>Name</th>
		<th>Value</th>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>SOME COMPANY</td>
		<td>SOME VALUE</td>
	</tr>
</table>
```
That would create a very basic table. From here we will go over some css.

### CSS
To begin we got the style.css file located to the left in the area under the index.html. Coding in this
area requires that we use both `{}` and `;`. To start applying styles to parts of our page we need to
specify which tag and in this case we will be updating the table. The code to start will look like this:
```
table {

}
```
In my case I am creating two tables that are side by side. I increase the width to 50% and the code will
look like this:
```
table {
	width: 50%;
	border: 1px solid;
	border-collapse: collapse;
	padding: 20px 15px;
}
```
I gave it a border with a solid line underneath the width modifier. The border-collapse will make sure 
that if two data points both get a border on the same side it will merge into one single border. By 
default it will not merge the border and have two separate lines show up on the table. The padding makes
it so that there is space in each cell. We can do same thing with each other element in the tables
such as the rows and headers and all the cells.

### Conclusion
And that's a few basics into making the table and the css behind making it look better. You can add color
move the position and increase the size of everything if you wanted. As always hope this helped a little.
Good luck with everything you do! See ya around.
