---
layout: post
title:  "Blog_7_SP21"
date:   2021-04-16 3:25:38 -0700
categories: HTML
---
## Intro
Alright Blog 7! Missed a few blogs in between but that's fine! Everything's probably fine...anyway! Today
I'll be talking about creating a website using HTML. For this we will be using a free site called
[glitch.com](https://glitch.com).

![glitch](https://i.imgur.com/yssM8zE.png)

### Making a site
Luckily this site is free and you can sign up by going to the upper-right corner of the screen. Once your
account has been created we can begin creating projects! Click on the new project button next to your
profile pic in the top right corner and select the hello-webpage template. The page should now look
something like this:

![Project page](https://i.imgur.com/ngNRpj9.png)

On the left side of the screen look at the assets and click on the index.html. This is where most of your
code for the site will be.

![index](https://i.imgur.com/uf1nKM9.png)

Above is what should be showing on the screen for your first project. For the actual site it will look
like this:

![website](https://i.imgur.com/Sinx4HB.png)

Let's walk through the code a little. At the very top you will notice `<!DOCTYPE html>`. This tells the
browser that the page is being displayed using HTML as its coding language. The page will always start
with this before anything else.

Now let's talk about some of the tags used in creating the site. First we have the opening tag `<html>`.
All tags have an opener and a closing tag that denotes where it ends. The closing tag is similar to the
opening tag with the exception that it uses `/` at the start: `</html>`, as shown for closing html tag.
Everything for the page will be enclosed within the html tag. Within the opener tag there is some extra
code stating the the page is being displayed in English.

Every new section is indented 2 spaces from the previous one. So now the next section is `<head>` Within
the head section of the page is where you will put links to access resources that your page will call on.
By default we can leave the meta tags untouched. The title tag shows you will display on the tab at the
top of your browser. Under the title tag are links to your other resources located on the left side of the page under assets.

From there we move on to the body tag. All your paragraphs and everything else that displays on the page
will be found within this tag. When creating paragraphs you use the tag `<p>` to denote its start and
finish it off with `</p>`. Sectioning off you code like this will make it easier when you begin using CSS
which will affect how the site looks.

### Conclusion
FOr now that's all. This covers the basics of setting up a site. Next time I'll get into actually
adjusting and creating more things on the site. See you next time!
